Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

{OTT
TOP SECRET OFiiOii
-2- MG 3024 A, August 8 (Army Message), from Saigon.

US political psychological actions re SE Asia produce

strong positive support from nations having primary inter-
est SE Asia. Develop strong democratic state oriented toward
West. By persuading Government Vietnam to announce complete
independence, and for French to announce date of withdrawal
French forces and date Vietnam becomes entirely free.
Detailed implementation above included in plan.

B. Military establish sound realistic modern system national
military service. Specialists from US selective service
employed this effort. Evaluate and establish sound personal
policies. Establish national intelligence agency and other
intelligence programs all fields. Study and reorganize
Defense Ministry and Armed Forces. Establish for each
military service streamlined and highly effective training
organization to include staff training and field training
agencies, develop division training camps, RTC, et cetera.
Logistics development. Signal development. Budget and fis-
cal development. Develop independent Vietnam army of
divisional-sized units.

C. Naval and air establish sound economic program to provide
for realistic development resources including rebuilding
railroads, developing highway system, agrarian reforms,
housing construction, schools, development sanitation and
hygience.

We believe such plan last resort solution on salvaging
remaining Vietnam and offer it for consideration in formula-
tion US policy for SE Asia. Ambassador concurs. Ambassador
generally concurs with objectives above outline and with my
analysis situation. He approves entire report as a timely,
useful initial plan, although he has reservation as to some
of methods proposed, as he doubts necessity of US to become
quite so far involved in operation of this government except
on military training side. Comment: I feel this is war in
every sense. Wartime methods, therefore, are in order all
fields until emergency passed. ;

SMS:BD

70.

nop secrer SENSITIVE
