Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

that he had no personal political ambitions, believed that Diem
and Hinh could be brought together very easily. I agreed that,
while ideally the solution might be for Diem and Hinh to bury
their differences, the matter was a little more difficult and I
believed that at this moment neither I nor others should get in
touch with Hinh. Before undertaking anything of â€˜this sort, it
would be necessary for me to see Diem, which I did not plan to
do until the following day. It had been clear for some time that
General O'Daniel was eager to take a hand in the problem and he
had previously offered "to be anybody's messenger" should the
need arise. This knowledge was one of the reasons that I stated
definitely that no one should see Hinh at this time.

Unfortunately, despite my admonition, General O'Daniel, ac-
companied by his aide, went that afternoon to call on General
Hinh at General Hinh's house and had a two-hour conversation
with him concerning the political crisis. This conversation was
reported in summary in my telegram 981. In essence, it appears
that General O'Daniel inguired as to Hinh's attitude toward the
President and as to his personal political ambitions and re-
ceived the usual story from Hinh depicting himself a loyal,
patristic soldier without political ambitions and only too ready
to cooperate with the President. It would appear clear, as has
been indicated by O'Daniel himself, that O'Daniel then suggested
that, since Hinh felt that way, he should convey such a message
to Diem in the hope that the matter could be set right by a
clear understanding and differences between the two men thus be
settled. Hinh made a phone call immediately in O'Daniel's pre-
sence to the Secretary of State for Defense Chan, who promised
to convey Hinh's message to the President. It is probable also
that O'Daniel discussed, at least in general terms, his own
solution for the Hinh-Diem conflict, which included the promotion
of Hinh away from direct command of the army and placing him in
the presidential palace as the supreme military adviser to the
President.

O'Daniel's intentions in this action which he took were
certainly good. The fact remains, however, that he took this
action in direct contravention of my instructions, indulging his
tendency to take matters into his own hands and to mix into
political situations without proper clearance from the Chief of
Mission.

This is not the first time that O'Daniel has taken hasty
direct action himself with regard to a political problem. When
difficulties began to shape up between Diem and Hinh and I had
received a request from Diem to look into the possibility of
having General Hinh invited to the United States in order to re-

+ move him from the scene while the President established his

754
me ERAT ys
rOP Sebnal
bi el Co tee to ee

j
