Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 201 |

~ SECRET

* + 7118, January 15, + Pehle from sioscow via arniy
for the Frenche T=UD on corch 16, 1940 published a
strong attack on French Superio lian picturing the French
Empire as an undeveloped area in which all the profits
Were taken by speculators and aduinistrators and where
the native populctions Were seething with resentrient |
and-rebellion. Because cf these conditins the netive
troups could hardly be of any real value to Hance and
hope placed in colered armies was just ‘one more self
illusion in the plan of the French DOUPGECISIEs an
erticle in PRAVDA September 2d, 1940 interpreted the
Japanese invasion of Indo-China as another step in the
Japanese offensive which could only lead to arned
conflict with the Unitcd States and Great Britain,

Two or three other articles in stoscow papers at the
ane time followed a simile argument and warned the
British, Americans and Dutch that Indo-Chins. would be

used by the Japanese as a springboard for futher
expansicn. Le WA era See as 5s Sei

& half dozen other articles during the course of
1940 were extrenely critical of #pench colonial policy
pointing out that this poliey nade tht dependent areas
> bear 2 aisproportionctely’ large share of the Gost of
. the war end thet general’ policy ha cae completely

SECRET
