Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

SECRET
-2- SECTO 106, May 5, 2 p.m., from Geneva

cease-fire. French public desire for cease-fire was emotional.
and French Government could defend its proposal, even though
it would in effect delay any cease-fire for long time if

_not indefinitely, on grounds that conditions demanded were
essential for safety of troops themselves. The continued
resistance at Bien Bien Phu long after public opinion had
discounted its fall had conditioned French opinion to believe
its loss would not mean loss of war. He did not exclude
possibility of conference calling on opposing forces not to
undertake new military operations during negotiations. He
assumed very lengthy negotiations would be necessary to

reach any armistice agreement and felt that during this period
Communist uncertainty as to united action of US intervention
might be increased,

Allen inquired whether at some stage in proceedings working
out of armistice details might be left to combattants them-
selves 4S suggested in Colombo communique. Chauvel did

not like this idea but said it might be considered. In
response to question as to whether he envisaged conference
turning into indefinite Panmunjom Chauvel said it might turn
â€˜armistice negotiations over to working group and adjourn to
- reconvene when warranted.

In response to Achilles inquiry as to whether "international"
meant "UN" supervision, Chauvel stated French had no firm
position on this but subsequent discussion indicated French
continue to oppose use of UN machinery as establishing
precendent which would be used against them in North Africa
and elsewhere and that British definitely share their point
of view. Allen suggested something like peace observation
commission would be preferable to UN auspices. Achilles
stressed importance of insisting on UN auspices.

Chauvel said studies by French military had confirmed their

impression that withdrawal of French Union Forces from

Cambodia and uaos except for two bases in latter would be

of definite military advantage rather than disadvantage.

SMITH

JAK: MET/14

NOTE: Mr. Hoey's office (PSA) informed 3:15 p.m. 5-5-54 JDP
hol

SECRET

3537
