17.

18.

19.

20.

el.

22.

23.

2h.

25.

Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 201 |

TOP SECRET - Sensitive
1944 (Contd)

Hull follows-up with a new request to Roosevelt for decision
with the information that the British were going ahead with
bringing a French Mission into South East Asia Command (SEAC)
and other activities to get them installed. Memorandum by
Hull to Roosevelt, 10 October 1944... <csiesicccccncdcecetseciciavices

Secretary Hull requests Roosevelt's decision on rendering
support to resistahce groups, both French and native, in
Indochina. Memorandum by Hull to Roosevelt, 13 October 19h4...

Roosevelt decides that the U.S, "should do nothing in regard
to resistance groups or in any other way in relation to Indo-
china." Memorandum by Roosevelt to Hull, 16 October 1944......

Anthony Eden's views on the question of trusteeship for Indo-
china. Memorandum by H. F. Mathews, Office of European Af-
faire, 2 November TOW... 5 s.0 040s swisie wie! d9:4'0.0.5:416500 04.0'0.0,4:5 8:4 Â«09.0:

Stettinius summarizes recent developments in relation to
Indochina for President Roosevelt. Among the points covered
was that the 0.8.8. representative in SEAC reported that
British, French, and Dutch strategy appeared to be to win

back control of Southeast Asia with U.S. resources but "fore-
closing the Americans from any voice in policy matters."
Memorandum by Hull to Roosevelt, 2 November 194..........cceee

Roosevelt appears adamant in a four point reply to Secretary
of State; it was to be made clear that the U.S. had made no
final decisions on, and exvected to be consulted by the
British, Dutch and French with regard to any future of South-
east Asia. Memorandum by Roosevelt to Stettinius, 3 November

19 ee ee ey

France expresses strong interest in participating in recovery
of Indochina. Caffrey 316 to Hull, 4 November 1944.........00.

British aide-memoire covers proposals for the use of French
forces in pre-operational activities in Indochina. Halifax
letter to Stettinius, 23 November 194k... ccc ereccccvccecccccs

Stettinius informs Roosevelt of British impatience over lack
of U.S. reply to aide-memoire; the British were concerned

that the U.S. had not determined an Indochina policy and

could hardly keep the French out in light of their increas-
ing strength. Memorandum by Stettinius to Roosevelt,

27 Deceiver TSW oo cu ws vcwcwecoecescaesves sevceesseeee esos et

35

36

37

37

38

4O

ho

Ki

43

Vv TOP SECRET - Sensitive
