Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

_ TOP SECRET - Sensitive

V.B.3- (Book III) . TABLE OF CONTENTS

188...

189:

190.

The Geneva Accords - 1960

The State Department explains the rationale of why the
United States issued a unilateral declaration instead:

of signing the 1954 Accords on Indochina. Secretary
Dulles was unwilling to even consider signing accords

on Indochina of the type concluded at Geneva, and hence ~-

" was not an alternetive to issuing a unilateral declara-

tion but was a substitute suggested by the French

leaders. The declaration was based on the understandings

of the 14 July Franco-American Six Point position paper.
State Department Analysis - Geneva Declaration. c.scoscessouee

The NSC adopts the JCS recommendation that the possible
use of ROK forces in Indochina be kept under review.
Secretary of Defense Memorandum to JCS, 30 July 1954......6..

Dulles reviews the occasions when French officials .sug-
gested U.S. armed intervention in Indochina and the

‘ parallel U.S. efforts to orgenize "united action.”

The possibility of “united action” lapsed in mid-June

1954 with the French decision to obtain a cease-fire

at Geneva. Dulles 689 to London, 3 August 1954...c..eccaeess
The CIA assesses the vrobable outlook in Indochina in

the light of agreements at the Geneva Conference. The
conclusions are:(l)that the communists will continue to
pursue their objectives in South Vietnam by political,
psychological and paramilitary means; (2) that if

elections are held in 1956, the Viet Minh will win;

(3) and that the events in Laos and Cambodia depend

on the developments in Vietnam. National Intelligence
Estimate, NIE 63-5-54, 3 August 195k... ccccecccsececccseccses

The French view of Diem Government is that it does not
qualify on three major points: (1) fully representative

of the population; (2) prepared to carry out land reform;
and (3) prepared to depose Bao Dai. Diem is seen as
valuable for™his high moral character but his mandarin
background precludes his qualifications on the three

points. Paris 481 to Dulles, 4 August 195. .....ececcccccens

The Joint Chiefs of Staff recommend thet before the U.S.
assume responsibility for training the Vietnamese Army
that four preconditions bé met: (1) "it is absolutely
essential thet there be a reasonably strong, stable
civil government in control"; (2) each government con-
cerned should formally request the U.S. to assume the
responsibility; (3) arrangements should be made for

676

679

691 —

679)

“200i TOP SECRE™ = Sensitive
