Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

TOP SECRET

-2. DULTE a April 25, midnight from Geneva

- {ntervention ae Dien Bien Phu and also opposed to becoming
directly involved in any way with the Indochinese war. a8

Referring to the rest of Southeas st Asia, he said the British
were confident that they had the situation in Malaya in hand
and mentioned that they had 22 battalions there and 100,000
native police. He said that there was no Berets? between

Indochina and Malaya.

Eden also showed me a map of Eanes avenatod = Kiewoien
and the British chiefs. The map indicates that virtually all
of Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia is under or subject to imminent
control by the Viet Minh. The British believe that the only
way to cope with the situation is to commit a strong force to
the Hanoi delta and generally work outward concentrically con-
solidating their position as they go with loyal natives. This
they believe is a “tremendous project involving lots of time
and considerable forces.

I said to Eden I felt the position which his Goteranent had ©
taken would have so little in it in way of comfort to the
French that the prospect of the latter standing firm here was
very Slight. It would be a tragedy not to take steps now watch.
- would prevent Indochina from being written off.

Eden said that there was obviously a difference in the United
States and the United Kingdom estimates and thinking but the
United Kingdom proposals which he had outlined above were as
far as the British Government could go.

DULLES

EJH/11

£9163
389

TOP SECRET
