Declassified per Executive Order 13526, Section 3.3
NND Project Number: NND 63316. By: NWD Date: 2011

SECRET
-2- SECTO 633, July 17, 8 p.m. from Geneva

On the other hand the regroupment of non-national armed forces
in the zones resulting from the partition implies their con-
solidation outside of any danger of combat and thus reinforces
the threat that they constitute to the free expression of the
will of the people.

Therefore not only does such a cease-fire not lead to a durable
peace, since, ignoring the will for national unity, it provokes
the people to â€œunify" the country, but, by the consolidation of
the armed forces now facing each other, it violates in advance
the liberty of the future elections.

The delegation of the State of Vietnam, which more that any other
wishes the return of peace, is pleased with the efforts put forth
by the other delegations in favor of this object. However, it
greatly fears that the cease-fire, such as it seems to be accepted
by certain delegations, far from leading to peace, makes peace
improbable and precarious. .

Aware of these very grave dangers and certain that it is expres-
sing the profound aspirations of all true Vietnamese, including
most of the Viet Minh fighters themselves, and in full accord
with the Chief and the Government of the State of Vietnam, the
Vietnamese delegation asks not only a cease-fire but the dis-
armament of all the belligerent forces in Vietnam.

The Vietnamese delegation asks that the entire territory of
Vietnam be placed provisionally under the control of the United
Nations pending the complete re-establishment of security, of
order and of peace in their minds and in their hearts which will
permit the Vietnamese people to decide their destiny by free
elections.

His Majesty Bao Dai, Chief of State of Vietnam, thus shows once
more that he places the independence and the unity of his country
above any other consideration, and the National Govern-

ment of Vietnam would prefer this provisional control by the
United Nations over a truly unified and independent Vietnam to
its maintenance in power in a country dismembered and condemned
to slavery.

The Vietnamese delegation reserves its right to develop its
proposal at a later time.

END QUOTE
SMITH

AB: PAF/3 652

Note: Read by Mr. Sturm (FE) 5:30 p.m. 7/17/54. LQB

SECRET
